		      Course Information Handout
	       EE608  Computational Models and Methods
	    School of Electrical and Computer Engineering
			  Purdue University
			 Spring 2016 Semester


Class meeting hours: Tues/Thur 3:00 - 4:15   Wang 2579

Instructor: Professor Robert Givan 
Office, Phone, Email: EE 313C, 49-49068, 532-8427(cell), givan@purdue.edu 
Office Hours: See http://www.ece.purdue.edu/~givan/office-hours.html
              for latest.  Let me know ahead if you plan to attend, 
	      by email or text message.

Teaching Assistant: See course web page.

Web Site: http://engineering.purdue.edu/~ee608/ 

All handouts will be made available on this web site to Purdue
computer account holders.

Email Helpline: ee608@ecn.purdue.edu, forwards to professor and TA.

Please send all course content questions to this address. 

Textbook: Introduction to Algorithms, THIRD EDITION by Cormen, 
Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein. The MIT Press. 
ISBN #0-26-203384-4 (2009).

Exams: There will be one in-class 75-minute timed closed-book midterm
exam, on March 1.  There will be a 2 hour final exam during exam week
at the assigned time (to be announced).

If for any reason you cannot make an exam, you must let me know
immediately once the exam time is announced. 

Grade Allocation: 40 % Midterm exam
      		  60 % Final exam 


1. Administrative Information. All current information about the
course (e.g. office hours, exam dates, etc.) is subject to change at
any time. Changes will be announced in class, as well as emailed to
the class email list.   

2. Homework/Projects. Homework will be assigned regularly, due at the
beginning of class, BUT WILL NOT BE COLLECTED.  Solutions will be
provided 24 hours after the due date.  

3. Office Hours. Professor Givan will hold office hours each week as
listed on the web site named above.  

4. In the event of a major campus emergency, course requirements,
deadlines and grading percentages are subject to changes that may be
necessitated by a revised semester calendar or other
circumstances. You may find updated information about the course on
the course web page in such a circumstance.

5. Regrade Requests. Exams may be submitted for regrading up to one
week after they are returned to the class. To request a regrade, write
an explanation of your request on the front of the exam and attach it
to the assignment or exam, then give/send the assignment to the
professor.

6. Extra Credit. There will be no extra credit offered in this course.

7. Cheating. We expect you to maintain the highest standard of
academic honesty and integrity in your work in this class. Unambiguous
cases of cheating will result in an F for the course as will repeated
suspect work. Any suspect work may be given a zero. Allowing someone
to cheat from your work is as serious a violation as cheating from
someone else's work. We also expect you to hold both your solution and
our solution to each homework and exam in confidence and not to share
or distribute these solutions after the end of the course.  (It is OK
to share these solutions with other students in the class this
semester after the due date for study purposes.)

Exams will be closed book and closed notes. You must solve the exam
problems yourself, without any help (knowing or unknowing) from any
other student. You must not seek any knowledge in advance of the
specific test questions (beyond that given in class), and must report
any violation of these rules by any student that you are aware of. You
must not allow any other student access to your solutions during an
exam. If the seating situation makes this difficult please inform the
exam proctor.

Written Homework: Discussion of and collaboration on homework problems
is encouraged.  Each student is responsible to ensure that they
understand/learn the material by whatever process works for
them. Homework is not a direct part of the evaluation process in this
course.  However, you must still write your own solution to the
homework problem---collaboration does not include using or viewing the
written solution of any other student.

8. Feedback. Professor Givan actively solicits positive and negative
feedback from students throughout the course. If you have a complaint
about how the course is taught or organized, or constructive feedback
on what would work better for you, please send e-mail feedback to
givan@purdue.edu. Feedback will in no way negatively influence your
gradeâ€”thoughtful feedback, both positive and negative, is much
appreciated. Negative feedback is particularly valuable in helping
improve the course.

9. Course Outline. I intend to follow the textbook table of contents
as a course outline. We plan to cover most of parts 1 to 4, 6, and
chapter 34, along with the mathematical background in the appendices.
Additional topics will be covered if time allows. Topically, these
sections cover summations, sets, counting and probability, order of
growth, recurrences, analysis of randomized algorithms, sorting
algorithms (e.g., heapsort, quicksort, counting sort, radix sort, and
bucket sort), data structures (e.g., hash tables and search trees,
with stacks, queues, lists, and trees assumed as prerequisite
training), dynamic programming, greedy algorithms, amortized analysis
(if time allows), graph algorithms (depth-first and breadth-first
search, minimum spanning trees, and shortest paths algorithms), and
NP-completeness.

10. Reading Assignments. You are expected to find the related reading
in the text on your own. We expect all the sections listed above under
Course Outline to be read by students as they are covered in class. We
may test any material covered in these sections once the relevant
topic has appeared in class lectures.  Please ask the professor if it
is unclear whether a chapter or section has been covered, or which
chapter or section is relevant to a topic covered in class.
